Yokozuna and EC2
----------

## Building a Cluster

### Allow Inter-node Communication

Riak relies on distributed Erlang for intercommunication.  Distributed
Erlang relies on port `4369` along with a range of dynamic ports.  The
simplest solution is to enable traffic across all ports among the EC2
instances.

    ec2-authorize default -P TCP -p -1 -o default

### Start Instances

I recommend [using five nodes][five_nodes].  If you just want to
experiment one node will work.  [Performance Tuning for AWS][perf_aws]
contains advice in regards to running Riak on EC2.

    ec2-run-instances ami-72ae321b -k <YOUR_KEY> -n <NUM_NODES>

Each instance contains a self-contained Riak release under
`~ec2-user/riak/rel/riak`.  Many of the following sections assume a
remote shell on each instance with a working directory of
`~ec2-user/riak/rel/riak`.

### Modify vm.args

The node name in the `etc/vm.args` file must be changed _before_
starting Riak.

    -name riak@<HOSTNAME>

Change the cookie for extra security.  This isn't strictly necessary
but if the distributed Erlang ports are open to the outside world then
you should change the cookie to prevent outside access to your Erlang
cluster.

    -cookie <SOME_TEXT>

Make sure enable SMP, even if on single core machine.  Otherwise Riak
will fail to start.

    -smp true

### Open HTTP to Outside

If you want to open HTTP to the internet then do the following.
First, change the default security group to allow traffic on 8098.

    ec2-authorize default -p 8098

Second, modify `app.config` to listen for HTTP on an external
interface.  I.e. changing `{http, [ {"127.0.0.1", 8098 } ]}` to
`{http, [ {"0.0.0.0", 8098 } ]}`.

### Create the Data Dir

    sudo mkdir /media/ephemeral0/data
    sudo chown ec2-user /media/ephemeral0/data
    sudo chgrp ec2-user /media/ephemeral0/data

### Start Riak

    ./bin/riak start

### Form a Cluster

Yokozuna is an addition to Riak.  [Building a cluster][cluster_setup]
is the same as Riak.  There are no additional steps introduced by
Yokozuna.

    ./bin/riak-admin cluster join riak@<FIRST_INSTNACE_HOSTNAME>

    ./bin/riak-admin cluster plan

    ./bin/riak-admin cluster commit

### Index/Query Data

To start indexing and querying data take a look at the
[Getting Started] [gs] guide.

## The AMI

The AMI is a customization of Amazon Linux `ami-f565ba9c`.  It is x86_64
using instance storage.

Yokozuna is a moving target.  If you run into issues you may want to
check which commit of Yokozuna is being used and compare it against
the [commit log] [yz_commit_log].

    $ (cd ~ec2-user/riak/deps/yokozuna && git log -1)


[cluster_setup]: http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Basic-Cluster-Setup/

[five_nodes]: http://basho.com/blog/technical/2012/04/27/Why-Your-Riak-Cluster-Should-Have-At-Least-Five-Nodes/

[gs]: https://github.com/basho/yokozuna#creating-an-index

[perf_aws]: http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Performance-Tuning-AWS/

[yz_commit_log]: https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/commits/master
